>> Brian Holt: So now,
we're gonna do some events.
This is gonna make your pages interactive,
right?
That's one of the big points of using
JavaScript in the browser is you wanna
make things respond to
people doing things.
So I'm about to show you the most annoying
JavaScript feature in the entire world.
It's called alert.
So if you do click me right there,
hate it.
It's the laziest programming, right?
Alert is only for debugging purposes.
If any of you ship websites with
alert in it, I'm gonna find you.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: It's the worst, right?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so in fact,
yeah, let's refresh the page here.
>> Brian Holt: So
if you start like typing and retyping,
it's gonna to add event
listeners multiple times.
So you can actually listen to
the same event multiple times.
Every time I type in this,
it reruns all of the scripts.
So that's why it keeps adding itself.
So okay, event button Click me, right?
So this is just a normal
button right here.
Here I'm grabbing the button,
document.querySelector.event-button,
right?
Follow me so far.
Button.addEventListener.
And basically we're saying,
whenever this event happens and
in this case,
click event happens run this code.
This is called a callback, right?
You call it back whenever
something happens.
So whenever this happens,
I'm saying, hey, alert, hey there.
So whenever I Click me, it runs that code.
>> Brian Holt: Makes sense?
So click is obviously one
of the more common ones.
It doesn't have to be done necessarily on
buttons though, I'm going to implore you=
if you're going to put an event listener,
it probably should be on a button.
>> Speaker 2: If you're going
to make a drop-down menu,
would you use a click event for
the button?
>> Brian Holt: So there are built in
drop-downs in the browser already,
you can called selects, right?
>> Brian Holt: Like this and
then you can use styles to make
this look however you want to.
So I would say in general, this is better.
>> Speaker 2: You could make a navigation
bar with that all sorted now?
>> Brian Holt: That's always good,
absolutely.
The reason why I would say stick to this
rather, you absolutely can do that with
just like divs and JavaScript and
CSS and stuff like that.
The reason why this is better is this
is way more accessible to someone
that's visiting your site
using a screen reader or
it's also more accessible to Google when
they're doing their SEO kind of stuff.
So I'm huge on accessibility, right?
The internet's for everyone, right?
So we shouldn't make websites
that people can't use.
So that's why I say use buttons
when you're doing click events,
because screen readers know
how to handle buttons, right?
They're built to use the internet
as people would expect it.
But if I put like,
I made this like a div, right,
this is no longer first of all,
no longer has the style of a button.
This still works.
It would still work, if I just got to
run this again in the browser here.
So now if I do this in the click,
right, it does still work, right?
So I can add event listeners on
things that aren't buttons, but
a screen reader is gonna have no
idea what to do with this, right?
It doesn't know that there's
an event listener on this.
It wouldn't know to show that to
a person that was using a screen reader.
So I'm going to say that,
that's not ethical, right?
It's not ethical,
because we should be, again,
making websites that everyone can access.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: On ethical things,
could you create alerts that are hidden?
>> Brian Holt: Not using
this kind of alert, right,
this kind of alert is gonna pop
over everything, right, and
you have no control over what it
looks like or how it does that.
But there are ways to do modals and
various different ways
that are more shady.
I'm not gonna teach you that.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So for accessibility
reasons, if you were writing a paragraph
and you wanted to put a tag in there
to bring them to another page,
would it be better to use a button tag?
>> Brian Holt: No, so in that case,
an anchor tag is gonna be much
better anchor being in a tag, right?
So screen readers are also very,
very good at finding anchor tags and
to take people various places.
In fact, if I wanted to, I could say,
document.location here = google.
Let's put in frontendmasters.com.
>> Brian Holt: So now if I click on this,
let's just open that again.
>> Brian Holt: Fine, whatever.
>> Brian Holt: Let button two,
button two, okay?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now if I come in here and I click on this,
it should take me to
frontendmasters.com which it did.
You should always use an anchor tag for
that.
Because again, screen readers don't know
how to handle buttons in terms of click
events, but they don't know that,
that's gonna be a link and
it's gonna take someone somewhere, right?
Furthermore, for just everyone, I use
Cmd-click all the time to open things
in a separate tab and that doesn't work
if I do redirection this way, right?
So if you're linking somewhere that
should go to a different page,
it should be an anchor tag.
Did I answer your question?
>> Speaker 3: Yes.
>> Brian Holt: Cool, so
I've shown you click event.
Click events are gonna be something that
often that you're going to respond to
hopefully on buttons.
I'm not gonna get too much into
like how to do it without buttons.
You can still make it accessible
without a button using things like that
are called like rolls and RTA tags.
It is possible.
So sometimes you have to do it that way,
but just make sure that you're keeping
an eye on making sure that it works
with the screen and stuff like that.
If you're a professional web developer,
you should have a screen reader
installed on your computer and
you should check your site with it.
And like I was alluding to earlier,
if you make your site accessible,
you make it SCL friendly as well.
So you get the added advantage that
you'll rise in Google ranks, as well.
>> Speaker 2: Does that work with just
the built in screen readers too for
Firefox and stuff or
should you get a specific one?
>> Brian Holt: The one I use is Jaws,
I think that's the one that everyone uses.
By no means an expert, but
I at least try and check, right?
>> Speaker 2: I was just wondering
if there was like any problem that
wouldn't show up if you use the in
browser screen reader versus the-
>> Brian Holt: That seems like it
should work to me.
I mean, people over at Mozilla
are pretty smart or Google or whatever.
So it doesn't offend me,
I'll put it that way.
[LAUGH]